we begin in the Gaza Strip where the
World Health Organization says not
enough Aid is reaching civilians
intensified fighting in Northern and
Central Gaza has also halted several
deliveries of medical supplies and fuel
to hospitals Israeli troops are trying
to root out Hamas militants who carried
out deadly Terror attacks in Israel
three months
ago grabbing all they can from a Truck
west of Gaza City bags of flour boxes of
can
[Music]
food throughout the territory gazin face
Mass hunger and disease the UN says one
in four are
starving the majority of gaza's
population has been displaced at least
once since the start of the war most
depend on crossborder aid for
survival those displaced say they are
living in absolute
desperation
we have lost hope we've been listening
to the news for 98 days hoping that the
war will end but there is no hope all we
see is this difficult situation we are
in we have no water or electricity since
water is scarce we can only show once a
month it's taking a toll in our mental
health and there are diseases spreading
everywhere pressure to allow more Aid
into Gaza is mounting on Israel the
opening of a crossing at the Israel
Egypt border
has not significantly increased the rate
of deliveries Aid trucks are often
delayed waiting for security
checks but Israel's military says it has
now increased its capacity for
screening we are ready and willing to
facilitate as much humanitarian Aid as
the world will give especially essential
Aid like food medicine and
shelter we do security checks on
humanitarian Aid trucks Tru for weapons
before they enter Gaza we have increased
our screening capacity considerably but
even when Aid gets through distribution
is another
problem the absence of security
guarantees and intensified offensives
around hospitals in Northern Gaza vital
medical supplies can't get to people who
need it
most it means that hospitals don't have
fuel it means that patients don't have
food it means that um there aren't
supplies to care for the patients un
agencies say humanitarian corridors for
Aid are needed now to save
lives and earlier I spoke with Christian
Lind meire from the world's Health
Organization I asked him whether his
staff were noticing a difference on the
ground after the Israeli Army said it
would facilitate more Aid into Gaza uh
so the willingness is of course great
but no we have not seen any change
changes on the ground the words have yet
to um translate into action on the
ground the problem for us is the any
permissions or any Aid coming in or
evacuees going out is way too ad hoc it
cannot be plan convoys sit for days
waiting to get in convoys sit inside
Gaza wanting to go to the north uh and
are waiting for permissions although
everything was planned as according to
the instructions giving the at hoc situ
that's the problem we're dealing with
and of course in a in a short amount of
time in a short window there can never
be enough help brought to people even if
the roads are then clear of attacks
clear of bombs and clear of debris uh in
order to bring material in or further up
into Gaza what is most urgently needed
at the
moment that's a tricky question it's
nearly everything I mean first of all
right now it's really food and water for
the people people patients including the
patients on the operating tables and
then right after surgery are begging for
water and for food uh it needs fuel of
course to uh to run the hospitals to run
the generators uh to run ambulances and
then it needs a lot of medical equipment
from simple bandages and wound dressings
to anesthetics uh in order to have
amputations to be done under anesthesia
and not without um to anything in
between so but this is there it's there
and that's the important part it is
ready it's outside all the UN agencies
are ready to deliver the convoys as your
pictur show are a miles long partly
waiting outside it needs to get in that
procedure needs to be speeded up um and
then of course inside Gaza the
distribution is
crucial and that was Christian lindmeier
from the World Health Organization
meanwhile the US Secretary of State is
in the occupied West Bank for talks with
Palestinian leaders Anthony blinkin has
been meeting with the Palestinian
Authority president mmud abas in rala
Washington hopes that the Palestinian
Authority could govern Gaza after
Israel's war with
Hamas Lincoln is on a diplomatic tour of
the Middle East to try and prevent the
conflict from spreading he earlier urged
Israel to reduce the number of Civilian
casualties as it battles Hamas
militants earlier I spoke with DW
correspondent Tanya Kramer in Jerusalem
and asked her what blinkin wanted to
achieve there
while US Secretary of State anony
blinkin has said he wanted to talk to
the Palestinian leadership in particular
Palestinian president Mahmud Abbas about
post scenario post-war scenarios for
Gaza what the role of the Palestinian
Authority uh could be he also talked
about that he wants to talk about
reforming uh the Palestinian Authority
for it to be able uh to play uh a role
in such uh scenarios now you have to
understand the Palestinian Authority has
only limited governing uh control in
some parts of the occupied West Bank
they haven't been in uh Gaza since uh
Hamas seized power there in 2007 but in
general the Palestinian Authority has
lost a lot of popularity also among
ordinary Palestinians uh there have been
no general elections since 2006 now for
uh Palestinians there in Amala they of
course want uh to to hear from the
Americans what they are doing to end the
war in Gaza but also what are they doing
to protect the civilians their civilian
population not just in Gaza but also in
the occupied uh uh West Bank uh where
there has been an increase in settler
violence and we heard anony blinkin
talking about that in his remarks on
Tuesday evening he said he condemned uh
the uh Violence by extremist Israeli
settlers but also uh displacement by
communities uh in the occupied West Bank
and demolition and another very
important uh issue for Palestinians is
uh that the Americans will pressure the
Israeli government to release uh tax
revenues they withholding they needed uh
for a functioning Palestinian Authority
and that's also in the interest uh the
US Secretary of State said in for Israel
uh that the Palestinian Authority is not
further weakened but strengthened to
play its role blink also calling on
Israel to be a partner to Palestinian
leaders um but you mean you've
highlighted it there in the face of this
open conflict now with Hamas can the two
sides find Common
Ground I think there's not much common
ground right now uh um because also
we've been hearing repeatedly from the
Israeli government from officials there
that they don't see a role for the
Palestinian Authority uh in Gaza or they
have been very vague when it comes to
plans uh how uh this will look like
they're talking about Palestinian
entities governing Gaza but they're not
very clearly on who they mean by that
also uh that is very much on the uh us
agenda uh uh Anthony blinkin has talked
a lot about the prospects or that they
should be a pal the creation of a
Palestinian State on the horizon he has
also held talks in the region with other
leaders uh he has been to Saudi Arabia
there and he says there is a framework
in place but it needs to have this uh
Palestinian state um on the horizon uh
that is what's needed uh to uh to
achieve security and peace uh in the
region and that uh this needs uh you
know also the support uh of Israel they
have to make some hard choices there
Tanya Kramer in Jerusalem thank
you and here are some other stories
making news around the world the German
foreign minister analina barbach is in
Lebanon where she has been holding talks
with the country caretaker prime
minister najib maati they discussed
tensions between Israel and the Shiite
Lebanese Hezbollah militia barbach will
also visit German soldiers stationed on
a frigate in the bayroot harbor during
the
trp